Add metamonitoring docs (#2340)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/monitoring-grafana-mimir/collecting-metrics-and-logs.md

---
title: "Collecting metrics and logs from Grafana Mimir"
menuTitle: "Collecting metrics and logs"
description: "Learn how to collect metrics and logs from Grafana Mimir itself"
weight: 60
---

# Collecting metrics and logs from Grafana Mimir

> This article helps you to collect logs and metrics from a Mimir or GEM cluster. To set up dashboards and alerts,
> see [Installing Grafana Mimir dashboards and alerts]({{< relref "installing-dashboards-and-alerts.md" >}})
> or [Grafana Cloud: Self-hosted Grafana Mimir integration](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/integrations/integrations/integration-mimir/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can collect logs and metrics from a Mimir or GEM cluster. To set up dashboards and alerts,
see [Installing Grafana Mimir dashboards and alerts]({{< relref "installing-dashboards-and-alerts.md" >}})
or [Grafana Cloud: Self-hosted Grafana Mimir integration](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/integrations/integrations/integration-mimir/)
```

.

It is easier and recommended to monitor a cluster if it has been installed via
the [Grafana Mimir Helm chart](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed). It
is also possible to use this integration if Mimir has been deployed another way. For more information,
see [Collect metrics and logs without the Helm chart](#collect-metrics-and-logs-without-the-helm-chart).

## Collect metrics and logs from the Helm chart

To set up the collection of metrics and logs, follow the steps that are based on the version of the Helm chart that has
been deployed:

* For a stable release:
    * \>= 3.x.x:
      See [Collect metrics and logs via Helm chart built-in metamonitoring](#collect-metrics-and-logs-via-the-helm-chart)
    * \< 3.x.x: See [Collect metrics and logs via Grafana Agent](#collect-metrics-and-logs-via-grafana-agent)
* For non-Helm installations or installations of the deprecated enterprise-metrics Helm chart, see [Collect metrics and logs without the helm chart](#collect-metrics-and-logs-without-the-helm-chart).

### Collect metrics and logs via the Helm chart

> Starting from version `3.0.0`, the Helm chart sends metrics to a Prometheus-compatible server and logs to a Loki

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from version `3.0.0`, the Helm chart sends metrics to a Prometheus-compatible server and sends logs to a Loki
```

> cluster. The chart can also scrape additional metrics from kube-state-metrics, kubelet, and cAdvisor. node_exporter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster. The chart can also scrape additional metrics from kube-state-metrics, kubelet, and cAdvisor. Any node_exporter
```
Adding a word in front of node_exporter so the sentence does not start with a lowercase letter.

Author: Will change to "No node_exporter metrics are collected by the chart."

Reviewer: Alternatively, The Helm chart does not collect node_exporter metrics.

metrics are not collected by the chart.

> See [Additional resources metrics]({{< relref "requirements.md#additional-resources-metrics" >}}) for more information
> about node_exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information
about node_exporter, see [Additional resources metrics]({{< relref "requirements.md#additional-resources-metrics" >}}).
```

The Helm chart uses the Grafana Agent operator. Due to how Helm works, before it can use the operator, you need to
manually install
the [Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs)](https://github.com/grafana/agent/tree/main/production/operator/crds) for the
Agent operator.

#### Credentials

If Prometheus and Loki are running without authentication, then you scan skip this section.

> Metamonitoring supports multiple ways of authentication for metrics and logs. If you are using a secret (e.g. an API
> key) to authenticate with Prometheus or Loki, then you need to create a Kubernetes secret with that secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metamonitoring supports multiple ways of authentication for metrics and logs. If you are using a secret such as an API
key to authenticate with Prometheus or Loki, then you need to create a Kubernetes secret with that secret.
```

This is an example secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: metamonitoring-credentials
data:
  prometheus-api-key: FAKEACCESSKEY
  loki-api-key: FAKESECRETKEY
```

For information about how to create a Kubernetes secret, see

> the [Creating a Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#creating-a-secret).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Creating a Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#creating-a-secret).
```

, and `passwordSecretKey` with the details of the Prometheus and Loki clusters, and the secret that you created. If your
Prometheus and Loki servers are running without authentication, then remove the `auth` blocks from the YAML below.

```yaml
metaMonitoring:
  serviceMonitor:
    enabled: true
  grafanaAgent:
    enabled: true
    installOperator: true

    logs:
      remote:
        url: 'https://example.com/loki/api/v1/push'
        auth:
          username: '12345'
          passwordSecretName: 'metamonitoring-credentials'
          passwordSecretKey: 'prometheus-api-key'

    metrics:
      remote:
        url: 'https://example.com/api/v1/push'
        auth:
          username: '54321'
          passwordSecretName: 'metamonitoring-credentials'
          passwordSecretKey: 'loki-api-key'

      scrapeK8s:
        enabled: true
        kubeStateMetrics:
          namespace: kube-system
          labelSelectors:
            app.kubernetes.io/name: kube-state-metrics
```

### Collect metrics and logs via Grafana Agent

Older versions of the Helm chart need to be manually instrumented. This means that you need to set up a Grafana Agent

> that collects logs and metrics from Mimir or GEM. Refer
> to [Set up Grafana Agent](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/set-up/) for instructions on setting up the Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that collects logs and metrics from Mimir or GEM. For instructions on setting up the Agent,
see [Set up Grafana Agent](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/set-up/).
```

> Below is an Agent configuration file for collecting logs and metrics. Replace `url`, `password`, and `username` in
> the `logs` and `metrics` blocks with the details of your Prometheus and Loki clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example Agent configuration file for collecting logs and metrics, replace `url`, `password`, and `username` in
the `logs` and `metrics` blocks with the details of your Prometheus and Loki clusters.
```
Agent == Grafana Agent or something else?

              source_labels:
                - __meta_kubernetes_namespace
              target_label: namespace
            - action: replace
              source_labels:
                - __meta_kubernetes_pod_name
              target_label: pod
            - action: replace
              source_labels:
                - __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name
              target_label: container
            - action: replace
              separator: ""
              source_labels:
                - __meta_kubernetes_pod_label_name
                - __meta_kubernetes_pod_label_app_kubernetes_io_component
              target_label: __tmp_component_name
            - action: replace
              separator: /
              source_labels:
                - __meta_kubernetes_namespace
                - __tmp_component_name
              target_label: job
            - action: replace
              source_labels:
                - __meta_kubernetes_pod_node_name
              target_label: instance
  global:
    scrape_interval: 15s
  wal_directory: /tmp/grafana-agent-wal
server:
  http_listen_port: 12345
```

## Collect metrics and logs without the Helm chart

> You can still use the dashboards and rules in the monitoring-mixin even if Mimir or GEM is not deployed via the Helm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can still use the dashboards and rules in the monitoring-mixin, even if Mimir or GEM is not deployed via the Helm
```

> chart or if you are using the deprecated enterprise-metrics Helm chart for GEM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chart, or if you are using the deprecated enterprise-metrics Helm chart for GEM.
```

As a starting point, use the Agent configuration

> from [Collect metrics and logs via Grafana Agent](#collect-metrics-and-logs-via-grafana-agent) as a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from [Collect metrics and logs via Grafana Agent](#collect-metrics-and-logs-via-grafana-agent).
```

> There may be some
> modifications you need to make to it. See [dashboards and alerts requirements]({{< relref "requirements.md" >}}) for
> more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might need to modify it. For
more information, see [dashboards and alerts requirements]({{< relref "requirements.md" >}}).
```

### Service discovery

> The Agent configuration relies on Kubernetes service discovery and pod labels to constrain the collected metrics and

Reviewer: Is this "pod" or "pods’"

Author: "pod labels" = "labels of pods"

I think it is "pod", not "pods"

Reviewer: I am likely over thinking this. Keep as is.

> logs to ones strictly related to the Helm chart. If you are deploying Grafana Mimir on something other than Kubernetes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logs to ones that are strictly related to the Helm chart. If you are deploying Grafana Mimir on something other than Kubernetes,
```

> then you
> need to replace the `kubernetes_sd_configs` block with a block from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then replace the `kubernetes_sd_configs` block with a block from
```
